you're living through an inflection
point in human evolution between Tech
like AI Quantum Computing and biotech
the next decade will bring about more
dramatic change than the last 100 or
even 200 years combined virtually every
aspect of Our Lives is about to be
disrupted for the unprepared this will
be devastating but for those that take
the time to understand the most likely
path forward there will be huge
opportunities to help you better
navigate what's coming I bring you
futurists Peter
diamandis given the state of AI and
Quantum Computing do you think that
we're on the brink of human immortality
I think we're on the brink of a health
span Revolution I think immortality
comes when we can scan the brain and
upload you into the cloud you think
that's the only way we have to transcend
biology people have to realize we're
constantly replenishing all of the cells
of our body anyway right like the oldest
cells in your body are your fat cells
that are an average of 8 years old given
AI given Quantum technology we're going
to start to uh understand why we age how
to slow it stop it maybe reverse it and
I think those things will get us uh
north of 100 years the boohead whale the
largest mammal can live 200 years uh
Greenland shark can live 500 years and
have pups at 200 years old and the
question is if they can live that long
why can't we and for me it's either a
hardware problem or a software problem
and we're getting the tools to be able
to deal with and edit our software edit
our hardware and for people who are
saying well am I going to be part of
that am I going to live for hundreds of
years am I going to have the chance to
be immortal I'm going to put aside The
Immortal part again I think your mission
should be how do I live long enough
healthfully enough to intercept the
breakthroughs that are
coming right so it's interesting someone
asked me a question question like how
long do you want to live right I
remember when I was in medical school I
I set a like a 700-year lifespan which
is a ridiculous number it's ridiculous
because if I can
live I think another 30 years from now
the breakthroughs we're going to see are
going to buy you the next 30 or 100
years so your goal is to live long
enough to intercept what's called
Longevity escape
velocity yeah that to me is feels very
plausible when I think about
the magic trick that is AI yeah um walk
me through what you think is the rough
timeline and and I fully acknowledge
that looking into the future when you're
talking about something as revolutionary
as AI becomes a little bit comical but I
think that it helps uh to map how you
think about how this is going to work
like what the problems are that we're
going to solve where's the intersection
of AI and Quantum Computing you're the
only one I really hear talking about
that and it's importance in this
revolution what is it about Quantum
Computing you think is going to help
yeah uh are there qualities of AI that
are only going to be possible with
Quantum Computing what what are the next
steps let me Define first of all
lifespan and healthspan so lifespan is
how long you live how long your heart is
beating how long your brain is
processing uh Health span is how long
you've got the vital energy to enjoy
life you know get up in the morning play
with your kids to your grandkids go for
a hike enjoy yourself have the mental
physical uh Vitality right that's Health
span and that's really what we want you
know if someone says I don't want to
live to 120 years old it's because they
have a mental image of being in a
wheelchair
drooling right that's not we're speaking
about here um if I said to you at
120 your mind was as sharp as that ever
was you could you know hit the ground
and and do 40 push-ups and you know
would you want to live to 20 and I think
anybody who is who is loving life would
say yes so that's our goal it's it's
that level of
Vitality um so ai ai is going to play in
this by helping us uh understand such a
complicated situation so why do some
people live to 100 or 115 or
120 and smoke you know and still get
that far out right why some people L
people die at 50 or 60 um and I think
aging is and in human biology is so
complicated that we're still deciphering
it we're still untangling this this
process and there's so much data we can
now get and we've talked about you know
one of my companies uh Fountain life is
sort of like the most advanced
Diagnostics you can do so when I go to
Fountain life and we've got centers
around the US um I will be digitally
uploaded so in the course of a day I
will have a full body MRI uh an MRI of
My Brain Brain vasculature Brain blood
flow coronary CT looking for soft plaque
dexas scan 120 blood biomarkers
metabolome microbiome your
genetics everything all right so it's
150 gigabytes of
data and that data over the course of
thousands of individuals
can only be analyzed by AI but then we
can start to say look the people who um
s were the healthiest and and didn't
have uh disease or we can look at
presymptomatic disease and the people
who developed this over
time had this genetic sequence or had
these blood
biomarkers it's the incorporation of
massive data aggregation ation and AI
that's going to help us
understand uh why some people survive
and thrive and others don't and then
what are the Therapeutics look at
everybody who took rapamycin or metorman
or you know was on you know whatever
drug combinations it's so
complicated but we're running this
massive
experiment um and is going to help us to
untangle that and get some insight and
say yes for your genetics for your age
for your objectives these meds these
supplements are the best for you right
that's one of the things I'm really uh
working to build out for myself and our
members at Fountain life is that kind of
a
correlation like what you want to do in
life your upload your genetics number of
pilles Will intake per day this is the
right combination for you for you yeah I
think n of one is going to be a big part
of this okay I'm going to lay out my
thesis okay tell me where I go wrong
please uh so one I want to say that I
come at this the way that a Sci-Fi
writer would come at it so I understand
enough of it to get the gist and to be
able to prognosticate the specifics will
be filled in by people that really know
the science um but the way I see this
playing out is that okay we need this is
a game of pattern recognition there is
reason there is a reason why we age so
step one is going to be by um I think by
getting into synthetic data very very
quickly so we'll upload whatever the
first 10,000 100,000 people that go
through something like Fountain life and
we begin to um speak the language of DNA
let's say and we probably need to uh
feed into the AI not just human DNA but
across all kinds of species feed it as
much DNA as we can it goes in it learns
the language of DNA it begins to feed
itself data and begin to um try to
predict different outcomes based on okay
uh this environment with this genetic
code this drug interaction whatever
again looking for the massive amount of
data but trying to parse out the
different patterns in it so that it can
isolate what the problem is now with my
very sort of lame and understanding of
all of
this my again just guess at this point
is that what's really going on is the
epigenome is where all this breaks down
you know David Sinclair's study as well
as I do which showed that even if you
breed a mouse to just get massive amount
of breaks in its DNA over time the DNA
still looks the same like we are able to
repair the DNA it isn't what we used to
think it was which is you're getting
these mutations in the DNA over time and
the DNA is effectively getting corrupted
but something is happening and so if
that something is the epigenome where
we're just we're Mist tagging it again
this is my Layman's explanation of how
this works but they're going in and
putting in the wrong bookmarks um for
people that don't know how this works
your DNA is basically really tightly
wound and a little bit of it gets
exposed to say I'm an eye cell I'm a
skin cell I'm a heart cell whatever and
as you age you're dedifferentiating and
so your eye cell maybe now isn't purely
an eye cell because parts of the DNA are
unraveling so it's a little bit of a
skin cell a little bit of a heart cell
little bit of an eye cell and so now
this is where where the function begins
to degrade over time if the AI can
figure out okay cool that really is the
problem this is exactly what's going on
here are the yamanaka factors or
whatever that you need to um put to work
to rewind the cell so that it resets and
so now we're getting the bookmarks in
all the right
places that part once that's figured out
again I my gut instinct is that's going
to be handled through the the AI using
Quantum Computing to be able to Crunch
just an unbelievable amount of synthetic
data so we don't have because if you
have to feed in millions or billions of
people like I just worry that that's
going to take way too long for somebody
of my age but if we can do this via
synthetic data then the odds that it
goes faster go way up yeah where's
where's the flaw in that thinking so
listen I you know when I was in medical
school I don't know 35 years ago I went
arguably to the best medical you know
University and engineering schools on
the planet and none of this was being
talked about right all of this is really
this entire conversation is the last
five six years um and it's moving very
fast it was heresy before I talk about
longevity or uh age reversal and now
it's when of the hottest subjects on the
planet because it's the biggest
Marketplace I mean what would you not
pay for an extra 20 or 30 Health years
of life so yes we are um to Echo what
you said um if you think about it each
of us get 3.2 billion uh nucleotides or
our genome 3.2 billion letters from our
mom and from our dad and you've got that
same genome when you're born when you're
20 when you're 50 when you're 100 maybe
when you're
150 but why don't you look the same if
you've got the exact same instruction
set why don't you have a you know a a
12pack if that's a thing or a sixpack
whatever when you're 80 like you had
when you were 20 M that one I can answer
but the face I think is because the
six-pack has everything to do with your
lifestyle if you're just put on too much
fat it is I mean my my point simply
being is why don't you have the physique
um or the ability to build muscle or
everything of your youth when you're 100
why is there a difference and it isn't
your gen
it isn't your your 3.2 billion letter
instruction set it is what you just said
a minute ago your epig genome Epi for
the Greek word for above and it's the
control system and and you're right
um when
you're when you're just born or when
you're 10 or when you're 20 when you're
80 different genes are on and different
genes are off and the epig genome is the
control of which genes are on which
genes are off at the highest level it is
the control of the genes for skin are on
in your skin cells and the gene for your
hepatocytes are on in your liver and and
so they're different cells they've
differentiated turning certain silencing
certain genes and saying you're not your
genes aren't needed here in the skin
cell you don't need to be uh you know uh
purifying out urine right um and
so as you age would apparent currently
is going on is that the control of which
genes are on and which genes are off are
beginning to
blur and as you're getting older the
genes that should be off are turned on
or the genes that should be on are
turned
off um I'll give you an example skin um
you know the Supple skin of a child of a
newborn right part of what's going on is
we have something like 23 collagen genes
and we express multiple collagen
molecules that make your skin give it
the the texture and so forth but as you
grow older we begin to silence some of
those genes and so your the collagen
molecules of the 23 maybe only eight or
nine are
expressed and so you start to get you
know wrinkles and uh you know your skin
starts to look that of an old person but
can you turn them back on so one of the
companies my Venture fund bold capital
is an investor in is is marel marble
biome and it's using genetic engineering
uh epigeic reprogramming to turn back on
those genes right to give you know to
take back the the look and feel of your
skin 30 years MH so can we do that
across multiple parts of the body can we
rejuvenate you in that regard and that
is one of the definitely one of the
hottest topics out there right now can
we turn back the clock and and in
December 2020 David Sinclair
uh wrote a very uh famous paper in which
he demonstrated turning back the clock
in the retinal uh visual systems of
mice um basically reprogramming the
epigenome to go back to where it was
earlier and giving mice had had lost
their Vision renewed vision and one of
his companies life biosciences is now
doing that in
primates right and once they already
done it they're already they're doing in
primates right now and have they shown
that it has the same retinal impact or I
believe they have um uh and you know
we're then a a fraction of a step away
from
humans right so uh this is the hot
conversation of uh epigenic
reprogramming on one element AI on the
other and I and I really fundamentally
believe that we're within Striking
Distance to making a dent in human aging
um and I mean you know that's why you
and I are here in this moment we just
announced our $101 million Health span X
prise um challenging teams around the
world it's the largest prize ever in
human
history uh challenging teams to restore
function in muscle immune and
cognition um hopefully this is a age
reversal uh therapeutic that teams will
deliver we're we're just looking at
three systems the you know if if the
teams going after this health span
exerprise are doing something that at
the root cause is hitting aging then
they're likely to hit aging throughout
the body we're only going to measure
immune muscle and cognition because
those are easy to measure and for me as
I get older I want to have the immunity
to fight infectious disease and cancer I
want to have you know the muscular
Vitality to you know hike and play with
my great-grandchildren
right and the cognition to be sharp for
decades to
come okay so one of the things that I
care deeply about is the timing of all
of this yeah me too bu so with with the
prize uh they have seven years right
they have we announc this now in uh uh
what month that we in November December
of 201 3 and it's a seven-year time
frame um why seven years do you think
that's I think I I set seven years uh
originally because if an xprize you know
the original X prize uh the first one I
launched back in
1996 was a $10 million prize for space
flight and again these X prizes are not
for a paper study they're not for an
idea a team has to actually demonstrate
the thing and then they get the money
and they keep their IP the world gets
the benefit and the first X prize took
eight years uh it was launched in 1996
it was one in 2004 when Bert retan
backed by Paul Allen built spaceship one
that Richard Branson then bought the
rights to and create Virgin
Galactic and since then our prizes have
typically taken anywhere from you know 2
to 8 years we had one prize uh a $30
million Race to the Moon that Google
funded uh it was at a 10 year Horizon it
did not get one it got shut down uh
though two of the teams actually made it
to the moon shortly thereafter but
crashed on Landing interesting but they
still you know got to lunar orbit and
still made there which is a big big deal
a Japanese team and an Israeli
team um so by setting a deadline on a
prize you force teams to actually do
something versus sit back if it's there
forever take you know the race element
does help them accelerate but a deadline
when you're facing a deadline you're
going to you're going to take even more
aggressive action uh so seven years for
me felt the right length the second
thing is one of you know our our largest
donor in this prize is a group called
Evolution which is based it's a global
nonprofit based out of Riad and out of
the
US and um Saudi Arabia had has a a 2030
vision of uh really they have a lot of
projects culminating in the year 2030 um
and it just so happened that that is the
culmination of this prize as well so
2030 works from that perspective as well
when I think about Ai and the rate of
advancement so I come at things from a
entertainment perspective and when I
look at what's happened in the last 11
months quite frankly hasn't been a full
year that I've been paying attention to
um textt to video the the leaps are pure
Insanity it it is it's insane I was just
looking at emad's uh latest uh stability
AI which is fast as you're typing yeah
you know there's a ape with an orange on
its head hanging from a you know
bouncing on a trampoline and as soon as
you add words the images are changing
it's insane it's crazy it's where
where're a micro step away from uh from
Hollywood vid you know movies being
produced by describing them in in words
yeah given the rate of change on in the
last 11 months I'm going to guess in the
next five years you will
see uh commercials and things done
entirely just text video like it I think
it's next two years five years I mean it
certainly could be in the next three
just given the amount of UI changes
they'll have to do my gut instinct is
that you're you're looking at at least
three years but yeah um so when I think
about the advanc in longevity when I
look at what humans have been able to do
just in the last 10 years it's already
incredible when you slap AI onto that
then it gets nuts what do you think is
going to be the contribution of quantum
computers how real is that right now
yeah so it's we're in the early days of
quantum Computing to be clear right um
uh Quantum
Computing uh is a complicated subject
which I'm not going to do service to to
be very clear right so classical
computing
is uh basically Computing that uses ones
and zeros on integrated circuit and a
typical um uh you know typical binary
language Quantum Computing uh uses
cubits that are basically can be
anything a zero or one or anything
between a zero and a one and what we
find is it it really um represents the
real world we're living in a Quantum
World we're not living in a binary
digital world we we
model the world uh using uh very
Advanced binary systems we model um on a
molecular level so for example uh uh
Deep Mind which is part of alphabet now
right um which created a program called
Alpha fold and Alpha fold I remember
when I was in Medical School uh or when
I was maybe was was undergraduate MIT at
the time the big Grand Challenge of the
time is could you predict how a protein
would fold so a protein is the basic
building structure of the body it's a
structural material it's an enzyme it's
muscle tissue it's it is a sequence of
amino acids there are 23 essential amino
acids here these amino acids when
they're um assembled in a ribosome read
from DNA to RNA to uh to a protein the
sequence of amino acids that're like
Lego blocks strung together um begin to
fold into a very
predictable 3D structure and that 3D
structure is everything that 3D
structure determines what that protein
does how it functions how it interacts
uh in a you know uh uh in a antibody
um and it was always considered if you
could go from an amino acid sequence
like I can tell you the sequence of the
amino acids in this in this uh thousand
amino acid sequence and if you could
tell me how it would fold that would be
the most incredibly powerful predictive
engine on the planet and it was a super
Computing problem and it was a couple
years ago now that Alpha fold uh an
algorithm out of Deep Mind cracked that
problem um and uh it was able to go from
an amino acid sequence to predicting a
protein within a single Atomic diameter
accuracy whoa and then it went on to
predict every protein and how it folds
in the human body and then meta created
their own version of that and was able
to predict every protein in the
biological ecosystem like POS it it's
gone insanely fast right so now we can
start to design
proteins versus just find out what
nature We Want A protein that is a
certain shape that interacts with a
certain like you know Key and Lock uh on
the surface of a
cell but that's all being done in binary
that's all being done with AI algorithms
operating on
gpus at a atomic molecular level we are
quantum
systems and the belief is that quantum
computers will be able to enable us to
model what's going on at a much higher
level of fidelity much faster and so
that we can start to understand the
fundamental elements of how life itself
Works in a much deeper way and start to
model things you know um I don't know
what what factor to use trillions of
times faster than a classical computer
because it takes a lot of energy and a
lot of time to model things
um but Quantum is going to be able to um
model chemistry and model biology uh at
lightning
speeds um so I believe we're going to
see uh you know 2023 2024 we're seeing
the inflection point of
AI um uh we're what does that mean it
mean means we're we're seeing
AI growing at at unbelievable speeds
what you said ear a few minutes ago that
it's like it's it's awesome it's it's
it's unbelievable how fast it's moving
and and typically an inflection point is
like it's a slow slow you know like AI
so AI began the first conversations in
AI were in
1956 at Dartmouth University a group of
a dozen people came together to talk
about this idea of can we model
intelligence in like a summer trying to
do it right they they to try and get the
theories and think through it right and
then neural networks were proposed not
very long after that but we didn't have
the computational power until this past
decade to actually start to put these
algorithms into play and so while AI is
what uh 56 you know 60 70 years old it's
only now that we're seeing this massive
inflection um it's the knee of the curve
it's the point where it's speed is so
fast right and now we're going to start
to see AI programming Ai and it becomes
self-referential and accelerates even
faster so Quantum is still slow it
meaning we're getting systems we're
beginning to learn how to utilize it
we're have there's like two or three
public Quantum compute
companies um uh friend I don't know if
you know Jack hit uh Jack is on my Board
of Trustees at x prise uh he spun out of
Google company called um sandbox AQ yes
right uh Eric Schmidt's the
chairman uh and Jack is the
CEO um and a stands for AI and Q stands
for Quantum and it's a company that's
really bringing together Ai and Quantum
computing and uh his belief is it's
going to be most impactful in a few key
areas and biology and chemistry is one
of those key
areas do you find yourself hunching over
your desk and battling back pain after a
long day of work invest in a chair that
is designed to improve posture prevent
pain and maximize productivity anthos is
built to be your last office chair and
I'm telling you this thing is amazing
it's guaranteed to be the most
comfortable chair on on the planet while
also improving your posture and reducing
pain or your money back and I'm telling
you it is also the most fun chair you
were ever going to sit in I know that
sounds ridiculous you have to try it
trust me I have an anthos chair myself
and it is not just me everyone in this
office fights over this chair I am not
kidding I have never had more fun or
Comfort sitting in a chair this thing is
amazing head over to anthro.com
impact and get $200 off your purchase
that to me is really fascinating the
fact that we're going to be able to
manipulate the building blocks of
biology is pretty crazy where do you
think that our ability to um predict the
folding of proteins goes how do we use
that what comes of it so now the
question becomes what drug do you
want in order to um uh handle certain
situation so we're going you know drug
Discovery up until now has been you go
in the Amazon forest and you forage for
different leaves and and and stuff and
you take it back to the lab and you see
what you got right like uh rapamycin
which is one of the longevity
medications out there um I'm not going
into detail about it but it was
discovered in a soil sample from Easter
Island uh which is known as rapanui and
that rapy got its name from that so this
random process of like just finding
stuff and and trying to purify and see
if it has an effect on anything uh is
going to go uh we're going to flip the
model to saying okay what exactly do we
want to interact with this receptor on
this cell or block this chemical process
inside of the mitochondria and we're
going to design it and then we'll see
does it interact with anything else
we're going to start to create in silico
models right comput computer models of
cells at in high fidelity
to understand what's going on and how
you want to tweak
it do we already have the ability to
manufacture this stuff or absolutely
100% And it's and and there's a company
called in silico medicine uh Alex zankov
who's the CEO there is a friend um uh my
Venture fund is an investor full
disclosure um and uh they have in silico
medicine is as the name says we're going
to create medicines in
simulation on computers and then
manufacture it and then show that it
works and they have drugs in Phase 2 or
phase three right now that we're
designing a computer for a particular
medical condition and it's working
out how does drug Discovery work exactly
using
AI um you're going
to understand uh a molecular
process uh inside a cell that is causing
a
disease um and you're going to say this
particular molecule is is a waste
product that's
accumulating that is causing this
disease and can we create a uh A protein
that might go bind that
molecule in a highly uh accurate fashion
that when it's bound uh blocks the
disease from occurring and allows your
immune system to clear it right so we're
going to start to um to Tinker with uh
and the question then becomes is does
that molecule you've designed to block a
particular reaction or um or waste
product does it have a secondary
negative effect that you don't want
right so you're still going to go
through clinical trials
um to determine that there's no downside
of that will that be more of a um we
have to do it but in reality we've
already run the simulation six ways a
Sunday inside there will be a point in
the future so for example when SpaceX
launched the Dragon capsule to the space
station for the first
time it worked it worked
perfectly they're great Engineers but
the reason it worked fantastic because
they had a high accurate computer model
of the entire system and so they modeled
it in High Fidelity and it performed
like the model
said and so for example more recently we
see Starship U making
serial uh advances as it's going towards
orbit of course you know the crisis News
Network and all the uh all the media say
oh Starship fails like it was
an amazing incremental success you know
the the first ship got to a certain
point the second ship got further the
third one will probably work perfectly
because those ships are are highly
instrumented and all the data is coming
back and the data is being used to
advance the models and saying aha this
is actually was going on and so let's
change this engine or this structural
enery and we're going to start to do the
same thing in biology which we're going
to start to gather enough data and
instrument and understand what's going
on where we can eventually get to a
point where we have a a highly accurate
model of the human
cell um and not just a cell but maybe
it's an organ maybe it's a thousand
cells or a billion cells and we're going
to know that this particular designed
protein or medicine whatever might be
works
perfectly um and we'll get to a point
where you don't need to uh go through a
massive clinical trial how far is that
away it's probably not the next five or
10 years but it is probably 20 to 30
years out uh but the cost of these right
and then by the way this drug works for
me not for
you by the way do you know I I don't
know the exact number but it's pathetic
um when a drug is approved by the
FDA and you take your you're prescribed
that
drug what percentage of time the drug
actually works for
you I've heard this before it's either
40% of the time it works or 60% of the
time it works it's like it's like under
20% no way yeah it's it's and I I'll I
want to check that number so I have it
but it's um the when a drug goes through
the drug Discovery
process you know
uh the
first goal is Do no harm
yes and by the way uh most of the drug
Discovery process for the last century
has been done in or safety trials have
been done in men only yep there's a good
reason for that though well the reason
was that drug companies didn't want to
deal with menes and menopause and so
forth right it was inconvenient there's
just so much so many more complications
but what happened was when drugs were
taken off the market because they failed
it was because they hadn't tested them
in
women because you I mean why assume that
this drug that we developed for a
particular condition that was safe in
men is also safe in
women anyway so first is Do no harm and
then does it work and when the FDA
approves a drug it worked in enough
people that it was worth approving but
it doesn't work in 100% in the current
circumstances and it's a it's a minor
minity uh number and I'll have to check
on
that that yeah the I'm shocked if the
punchline is the the number is that low
that would certainly speak to the
placebo effect because I've never taken
an over-the-counter drug it's not true
it's not that I've never taken one that
I didn't notice anything but the ones
that I take with frequency I'm like whoa
these really work my allergy tablets my
and by the way it may well be for uh a
narrow course of of drugs but it does
doesn't have to work for everybody
yeah so all right let's um look at all
of this through the lens of where this
goes and why it's going to work so when
I think about the problems that AI has
to solve in terms of understanding human
biology what's happening um that really
becomes the the goal of AI is to
ascertain what are the the set of rules
of physics effectively how do I then map
that on to a cell how do I map that on
to all the cells and make up an organ
how do I map that onto all the cells and
make up a human body so that's that's
eventually right now I mean so for
example when when when you go through
Fountain life and I hope you will I
would love to take you and Lisa through
it um we're opening up in LA in Q3 of
this year super excited about that it's
amazing um uh you know we're going to
we're going to download 150 gigabytes of
data about you and uh we have like when
we do your coronary CCTA for people
listening listen if you've heard about a
calcium
score um it really is kind of irrelevant
people have a heart attack with a zero
calcium score people with a thousand
don't get a heart attack it's unless if
your arter is blocked or you have
blockage in an artery that you see from
calcified plaque that's an issue you
make sure that the your coronary
arteries that feed oxygen and blood to
the heart muscle are patent and open and
and feeding it but if your if the plaque
on the side of your arteries isn't
blocking the artery and it's
calcified meaning it's like you have
cement on the walls but the blood's
getting through that's fine what causes
the heart attack is soft plaque that
isn't
calcified that can in the middle of the
night
break off and evulse and all of a sudden
you got a A Widowmaker right it is it is
blocked your because it goes Downstream
blocks it Blocks Your artery and your
heart muscle doesn't get blood flow and
it dies and then you have enough of a
heart tissue dies you have a heart
attack you die and so it's just now
using AI to go back to this that you can
take a a coronary uh CT of your heart
and put it through a set of AI um
algorithms that can find soft
plaque not the hard not the calcified
plaque and so we do that we have an AI
overlay on that to determine meaning
it's just getting better at reading the
images it's getting it's looking at the
data differently than before before all
we looked at was calcified and we've
discovered that isn't the issue it is
the issue if it's if it's blocking like
a 50% occlusion of your your left uh you
know descending AR
um so we
get data coming in 150 gigabytes of data
about you and this data all needs to be
looked
at by humans but that's so much data
there's no way that uh any human
physician can understand all of that
data it's way too much to to to Gro to
understand and hold in mind but AIS can
so the first use of use of AIS are going
to be to look at the data coming off of
your coronary CT look at the data coming
off of your full body MRI to look at the
data coming out of your 120 uh blood
biomarkers and then looking at those
individually and then aggregating them
all right looking at the population
level that's where we are today with
AI down the line being able to look at
on a physics level subcellular cellular
level all of that stuff sure that's
coming but we don't need that to be make
a huge difference right now it's
interesting okay so uh I'm certainly
compelled by where the science is today
but the thing that I am obsessed with is
it going where where it goes and do you
think we live in a determined
Universe oh I sure hope not that make it
kind of boring though really how do you
doesn't seem avoidable to me it wouldn't
it wouldn't change anything I do if
we're a determined universe so question
becomes um if if we were you know the
question for me is does quantum
mechanics uh make it deterministic or
not because of probability yes okay so
I'll give you my again coming at it like
a Sci-Fi writer and not like a scientist
but the way that I think about Quantum
is okay um even if the universe that we
live in is simply the most probable
universe it is still predictably
probable and this is exactly why we can
um create GPS which is a great example
so with Newtonian physics you can't do
GPS with einsteinian physics you can do
GPS because it takes into account
relativity and it it becomes specific
enough that you can really nail
something down um I'm perfectly willing
to accept that it's possible that all
the dice get rolled it exactly the right
way and I fall through the chair because
just every Gap in the chair lines up you
know exactly so could that happen sure
but that's probably not likely and so
given that we're in the most probable of
all outcomes um this stuff gets
predictable now I don't understand
quantum physics well enough but you know
Bell's theorem I don't know Bell's
theorem least not by that Bell's theorem
is every time a decision is made a or b
the universe splits okay so that I
certainly have heard that and so we're
living in a a branch of the universe
that was determined because I said the
letter b instead the letter a
right yeah what do you take away from
that though well it's
deterministic in an infinite number of
ways yes but that wouldn't change your
experience it wouldn't change my
experience of it no yeah so just without
it sort of devolving into the many
fractal branches which from a the
theoretical standpoint or a
philosophical standpoint it's fun to
think about but from an experiential
standpoint the reason I asked this
question by the way for those listening
I promise you this is going somewhere is
that when I look at Ai and what AI has
to do the reason I think AI becomes the
most transformational thing we will ever
experience is because it will finally be
able to map out a deterministic universe
and once you know the setup then you can
predict the outcome which which is why I
was asking about how um understanding
the folding of a protein like what
powers is that going to give us so as a
game developer one of the things that I
think a lot about is how you can create
a very simple set of rules that has
tremendous complexity yes and so I have
a feeling that Einstein was right that
there ultimately will be a very simple
equation that will be self-evident in
its Elegance that oh this is what the
universe is born out of because ultim
timately it is going to boil down to a
set of rules and it is the set of rules
that give rise to the complexity but
this is why and this is one thing that
always fascinated me that people without
going to space could predict what space
was going to be like and therefore say
you have to build a spaceship this way
you have to account for the way the
gravity is going to change and Einstein
called his his most beautiful thought I
think is how he referred to it that a oh
God I forget how it's actually explained
but what weightlessness is like
fundamentally that some somebody that
was falling but had no reference point
would simply experience it as being
weightless oh that's a horrible
explanation but anyway get you close
enough so the fact that he could just
think about the rules of the universe
and be like this must be true for this
to be true this is is the necessary
consequence and that he struggled with
his own theories and the predictions
that they made in terms of quantum
mechanics so did you see recently uh uh
both Deep Mind and open AI released
weather prediction model
M that were accurate 11 days out whoa so
this is fascinating and I saw this
morning a a prediction model on
bitcoin so tell me more Peter yeah well
it was trending up through the end of
the year not a huge amount but it was
trending up I'm a Bitcoin believer but
anyway um so anyway the point being
interesting right can AI make accurate
predictions in
seemingly uh massively complex
systems uh like weather I mean I can't
think of anything more complex than
weather or um the financial markets I
mean now it becomes fascinating if
you're actually able to predict and then
the question becomes well if you can
predict that and I know is that change
my behavior when that CH in weather no
in financial markets yes yeah um I mean
this goes back to uh you know I I'll ask
you the question uh my thesis is we're
living in a simulation and it's an nth
generation simulation um we're living
within a simulation within a simulation
within a simulation because I think
we're going to have the technology to be
able to do that and we will because we
can um and if that's in fact the case I
would do nothing different than I'm
doing right now um we're in a game how
do you feel about that it's interesting
so the I'm actually wearing the shirt
right now so I'm wearing a shirt for the
video game that I'm building called
project Kaizen which takes that as its
hypothesis which is everything you've
ever known is a simulation you have no
body anywhere there is no biological U
uh this is a simulation and then once
you know it's a simulation then you can
begin to manipulate it effectively and
that is me again as a Sci-Fi writer
trying to explore what it will mean to
understand the Rules by which all of
this apparent complexity is born out of
yeah um so I for a long time and look
honestly it's only been in the last like
month or two that I've started thinking
maybe this really is a simulation uh
just because the more I do thought
exercises probing at the edges of what
would it mean for this to be built on a
set of rules and why would it be built
on a set of rules and what built it on a
set of rules you just start asking
things back recursively and look I I map
to what I understand course and since I
understand simulations and video games I
map it to that and so there could just
be a fundamental flaw in my thinking and
I'm perfectly happy with that but um it
it does get harder and harder for me to
exempt myself from the likelihood that
this actually is a simulation so I
believe it inherently and I can't prove
it and again even though I believe it it
doesn't change anything I remember I had
a I was at years ago uh I was at a
birthday party that Elon had Larry Page
and Sergey Brin and Elon and I are
having a conversation before the falling
out um having a conversation about
whether we're living in a simulation and
I I think I don't know if it was Larry
or Elon said yeah the only way we're
going to find out is if you try and
tamper with it and the system
resets
yeah uh I mean it's fascinating I I
wonder if this has been a a subject
conversation um in ancient philosophical
times as well have you ever seen any
references to that Plato's Cave yeah
yeah very much the same idea again
mapping to what he knew he knew
campfires and shadows two dimensions and
three yes exactly so that becomes the
way that you think about it but I I
think as people really begin to
investigate the human mind it is
inevitable that you start going hold on
a second you're seeing the world
differently than me and so then you go
wait a second are either of us seeing
the world the way that it actually is
and then once you understand that we're
not uh that we necessarily couldn't be
that my umelt is different than a bat's
umelt and therefore we are going to
perceive everything very differently and
then you start going wait a second we're
perceiving the world instead of just
encountering it as it actually is so the
technology that's going to come to make
a dent in that is going to be BCI brain
computer
interface right so if I'm able to
connect my mind to your
mind I think there going to be an
interesting uh set of corrance you know
can I so there are dozens of companies
right now working on so you got 100
billion neurons in your brain 100
trillion synaptic connections and the
neocortex the top layer is your
sensorium and your
uh your homunculus of action and all
your visual cortex auditory cortex and
such and one can connect the digital
signals in your brain or the electral
signals in your brain to electrodes and
connect them to a computer and those
things are happening right now you know
elon's got his neuralink there's a
company actually here called
paradromics um which is doing that as
well um there's a lot of amazing
companies um and so we're going to start
to be able
to understand visually one of my
favorite uh recent
AI blow your mind examples was a group
took subjects and put them inside of a
functional MRI machine which is looking
at blood flow going through different
parts of the tissue in your brain and
the more the blood flow the more the
neurons are active because they're using
more glucose and oxygen and so forth and
they took the out put of the
MRI and they fed it into stable
diffusion and they gave the subjects in
the functional MRI machine an image to
look at look at an image of an airplane
look at it and think about that and then
they took the signals out of the fmri
and were able to see the person was
looking at an airplane that's crazy
right and they did could interpret the
brain signals say this is what you're
looking at yes yo awesome that's mind
reading mind reading yes it is mind
reading and so we're heading in that
direction and so one of the things I
think about is um you and I both are not
a
single living organism all right have to
you have to think about that we're a
collection of 40 trillion human cells 30
trillion if you're smaller 50 trillion
if you're
bigger um and those human cells are each
individual living
organisms working together uh
collaborativ
for competing but the competing or yes
and supporting each other in that in the
you know distribution of resources you
also have more than those 40 trillion uh
life forms in the form of bacteria and
virus and fungi as an ecosystem in your
body but you're not you know we think of
ourselves as Tom or Peter but we're far
more um I think we're towards a point
where if I can connect my brain to the
cloud and you can connect your brain to
the cloud and all of a sudden I've got
Godlike Powers with a small G I'm
omniscient omnipotent I'm not presentes
I can know anything I can think and
Google I can look through your eyes you
know or Through The Eyes of someone
watching a sunrise in
Tokyo um it is we're now a meta
intelligence we're at a new level of of
of empathy and connection between humans
you know I love Star Trek as you as you
all know are you treky or or Star Wars
Star Wars I'm so sorry for that you're
wrong you picked the wrong picked the
wrong part but it's okay um you know the
only thing and I you know the only thing
that roddenbery got wrong was the Borg
um you know the Borg or the you know the
evil um uh uh you
know networked minds but I think I think
we're going to head towards a level of
Consciousness on the planet as we start
to connect Millions tens of millions
hundreds of millions of
individuals um I think we become
conscious at yet another level I call
that a meta intelligence and I think
that's coming as well uh enabled by AI
enabled by this brain computer interface
you can imagine if I gave you the
ability to connect your brain to the
cloud and you plugged in for that moment
and all of a sudden you could understand
what you want you knew anything you
wanted you were connected to this new
envol of you know of infinite knowledge
and then I unplugged you how would you
feel I think you'd feel so lonely and
disconnected so I think once you plug in
you know this is more The Matrix than
than not so we can get to one of your
favorite uh genres but I think I think
that's
coming uh enabled by uh by AI you know
um let me go one other slight subject
and then we can uh you can take it back
where you want uh we just had
visioneering at x prise x prise um we
hold an annual event called visioneering
where we
brainstorm
ideas and um that would become great x
prises uh and this past visioneering we
had a couple of good AI prises one is AI
for
truth um when someone makes a statement
can you have an AI algorithm that's able
very rapidly to say factual truth here's
the roots of that this is opinion or
this is disinformation all right I think
that'd be very useful in our in our
coming world the other one which which
was um AI mediated communication between
any two
species well
right can I talk to Welles or dolphins
in a in a consistent accurate two-way
fashion that would be nuts that would be
amazing yeah I'd love that for my dog
that would be a trip I know be a trip
what it would be take me out food P
me but you know on a consistent basis uh
I mean you can imagine like uh if you
could talk to Welles and dolphins they
would help you explore the oceans or
talk to birds there's a kid that's
missing the the forest here help me find
them dude so that's very interesting and
I know the way your brain works and you
take a very beautiful optimistic look at
that um it would be utterly fascinating
so killer whales are vicious vicious and
they will go eat a great whites liver
just because they can and they will toy
with dolphins there are dolphins that
will kill other dolphins and they'll
mess with them uh dolphins that try to
have sex with humans I mean just and on
it's crazy and I have a feeling that
were we to actually be able to
communicate with animals it may be a
little more distressing than we want to
believe I read a story a long time ago
and I did find this very interesting
this speaks to your interpretation of
the Borg is being a misread and it was
these creatures that had these tails
that had like these almost fiber optic
tendrils and when they would connect
them sounds like Avatar yes I would be
shocked if he hadn't read this story
because it is very similar to that but
this was years ago I read this probably
30 years ago 35 years ago and uh they
would connect their tales and they would
instantly know the entire history
emotional Mila of the person they were
con
amazing and what was interesting was how
once you could no longer lie or hide
anything from anybody there was there
was a relaxed sort of acceptance of
yourself
like it or not this is who I am you got
your own I've got mine I mean
honestly and when I think about it uh on
on a relationship side and this is
something that you know talked to Lisa
more about the ability to
be
absolutely brutally honest about your
feelings about your desires about
everything you've ever done I mean how
many people actually have people in
their lives that know everything about
you where there's zero to hide I mean
it's like like in a relationship and you
look at a woman go wow she's gorgeous
and you're willing to say that and and
or you know something that you were
ashamed of having done but everything is
fully disclosed I think that level of
intimacy would be
amazing amazing it would be you you oh
man the the Symmetry that would have to
be there though because if there's even
slight imbalance of sure and and
therefore a lot of relationships would
not
work but when they do
click um and there's full disclosure and
your deepest likes deepest fears are
fully known to both sides it is a a
level of complete honesty and I mean
someone who knows you as well as you
know yourself I mean that I mean we're
going in a very different conversational
subject but um I I think that is a that
was something I would desperately love
and I have a few friends in my life
where it's like they know almost
everything possible and it's not that I
wouldn't disclose things to them it's
just we've never had those
conversations and those are the people
closest to me right for whatever
dysfunction I have only my wife knows me
like that m i I don't know why I uh I
don't well just share them with share it
with me now right now yeah there you go
live live on camera um and then you have
a billion people know about it the funny
thing is I don't actively hold things
back like I'm a pretty open book but it
is like there's something about sharing
your life with somebody where they see
all the like what do you like when
you're sick what do you like when
something goes really well when
something goes really poorly and there's
there's just too much intimacy for there
to be any posturing whatsoever because
they just see you too often um yeah it's
interesting so these are the things that
AI are going to
enable you know uh
imagine with this level of BCI where you
can't lie I mean interesting right
because you could probably make up uh
simulated truths that you honestly
believe and people do do that anyway
going back uh where do you want to take
this back to Let's rewind the tape here
well so the thing that I want to know so
this is all very interesting to me in
terms of where this goes and how far out
it gets and it really does become quite
fascinating but right now there are
tremendous opportunities for people that
really understand what's going on uh
obviously bold Capital this is a big
part of where you place your bets is do
I understand a little bit more than
other people where this is all going so
what what is the right now today Bridge
what are the opportunities that somebody
listening to this should understand
whether it's AI Quantum Computing
longevity where are the big
opportunities so I I believe without
question the two biggest business
markets on the planet are Ai and
Longevity right uh if you think about
from a national standpoint a national
leader of a
country uh should care about the health
and the uh the integral of intelligence
over their country if you could increase
the intelligence of your nation by 20%
right or the health of your nation by
20%
massive right or in a company increase
the intelligence of your of your uh your
Workforce or the health of your
Workforce these are huge levers to move
you know I'm often um
keynoting inside of companies or YPO
events or other you know uh about those
two subjects I mean that's my typical
like that's all that matters right now
ai and Longevity and and I'll ask people
in know in you know a wealthy group um
uh individuals I mean honestly how much
of your Capital would you give up for an
extra 20 healthy
years um and if they're honest about it
it's well over 50% of of their of you're
going to spend it anyway at the end of
your life yeah right trying to like deal
with wouldn't you give a 100% I think
people would but then they say well I'm
going to leave it to my kids or I'm
going to leave it to my philanthropy or
whatever the case my hold on hold on
hold on I want to paint a
scenario you you are before I am I am
with you I'm listen I don't want to
leave the money their behalf I want to
understand this mindset because this is
shocking to me uh you were before a
credible Source let's call this credible
Source God just to make it easy and God
is like hey bro button on the left uh
you get 20 extra years but you're going
to give me every dime all of your assets
everything button on the right you die
tomorrow but you get to give your family
all your assets yeah you're telling me
there are people that
h% because uh people want to leave a
legacy why the hell do you give a
billion dollars to
Harvard um do they really need another
billion dollars you know you want a
legacy there people want to know that
they're going to live that their legacy
is going to live after them whether it's
in the form of their kids or the form of
their name and so yeah um there's a
balancing act maybe it's 20%
that they would hold back uh those are
not the buttons before you there is no
20% there's all or nothing but you wow
okay uh that's crazy to me and but going
back to your question I think longevity
is one of the largest business
opportunities that's going to
materialize over the dec you take
advantage of it what what are you doing
to be ahead of the curve um uh well
building companies there in that so so
Fountain life is s my my biggest company
I'm building for a global footprint for
enabling everyone to have access to the
best Therapeutics and the best
Diagnostics right the Diagnostics are is
there anything going on inside your body
right now you need to know
about if there is you want to know
because you can take action we find 2%
of the people who go through Fountain
life have a cancer they don't know about
2 and a half% have an aneurism they
don't know about 14.4% have either uh
metabolic disease neuro
neurodegenerative disease cardiovascular
disease something you need to take
action on right away and so the thesis
there is your body no longer needs to be
a black box yes the the thesis is your
body is amazingly good at hiding disease
incredibly good and you're better off
confronting you're better off knowing as
early as you can because you can do
something about all of these things and
why now what what is now because because
the tech is there to image at High
Fidelity without the false negatives and
the tech is there to understand what the
data means right so a friend of mine
super successful individual um who I'm
doing business with in in Fountain life
and and uh and he wanted to go through
the experience goes through the
experience and we discovered two
aneurysms in his brain wow serious
aneurysms he's in surgery a week later
they're they're clipped and blocked and
he's fine and that threat but um had he
not it was a ticking Time Bomb for him
right we all know people who have oh my
God they died in their
sleep um or they go to the hospital and
the doctor says I'm sorry to tell you
this but you got stage three or stage
four whatever is it didn't happen that
morning it's been going on for some time
you just don't know how so the stats are
the following 70% of people who have a
heart attack had no previous symptoms
right uh you don't detect cancer until
it's stage three or four from a pain or
something going on it is a slow your
body is amazingly good at hiding it uh
you don't de develop a uh parkinsonian
Tremor until 70% of the substantia
uh uh neurons are gone and
so you need to look and people say I
don't want to know I say of
course you want to know as early as you
can fully know because there's now
things things you can do about it for
sure medicine has progressed incredibly
well and it's moving and if you're
wealthy you want to know because I want
to fund the research to solve that thing
right so um in Fountain the two
questions is is something going on you
to know about
today and if there isn't fantastic I go
every year for my upload and then I'm
tested throughout the year on stuff that
I'm incrementally improving and the
second thing is what are you likely to
develop and how do we push that off how
do we solve that how do we reduce your
chance of heart neurovascular you
whatever it might
be uh so that's what I'm building I
built a couple of companies one in stem
cells with Bob huri who's a CEO there
called cellularity another one called
vaccin that's developing vaccines so
vaccines are amazing things your your
brain is the most complicated machine in
the universe that we know of your immune
system is the next your immune system is
protecting you against infectious
disease
again against cancers right we're all
developing cancers all the time and your
immune system your natural killer cells
find those cancer cells right CU cells
replicate a certain number it's called
the hay flick limit you know 50 60
replications and then they should have
the decency to
die if they don't they can become scile
cells putting out inflammatory factors
or they can become cancer cells Immortal
cells and they
grow
and your natural killer cells
detect those cancer cells and zap
them but as you grow older you have
something called imuno exhaustion your
immune system starts to slow down and
you don't detect it and they can start
to grow and so if you can find cancers
on MRI there are things called The Grail
tests which take a liquid biopsy blood
biopsy and looking for cancer DNA in
your bloodstream and so you can you can
do something about these now
um
so uh vaccines I was that's where I was
I was talking about vaccines so vaccines
we know about it from mRNA vaccines for
uh from for covid and such but we can
now develop vaccines to activate your
immune system to fight cancer like like
go attack that you can vaccinate against
cancer there are cancer vaccines now
being developed the first one that was
approved by the FDA was for melan
which is one of the most deadliest
cancers uh one of my companies vaccin
has a vaccine in phase two for
Parkinson's uh uh going to phase three
for
Alzheimer's we have a uh a phase one
asset in hyperemia so going a vaccine
which goes you vaccinate yourself um it
activates your immune system to go and
go after a particular enzyme in the
liver called p C sk9 which creates the
bad cholesterol LDL low density
lipoproteins um and That vaccine which
you'd vaccinate yourself twice a year
for two injections a year injections
might be 20 bucks 50 bucks basically
drops your cholesterol level down so I
have hypercholesteremia in my family um
my dad had very high cholesterol whole
slew of medical stuff so I'm very
sensitive to
it um I I don't want to do statins I
take a very small amount of Statin for
an anti-inflammatory effect that's a
different story but I take something uh
called a um uh I take something called
aatha which is a uh uh a uh
antibody that's manufactured in a
vat um and I get a few MLS of this and I
have to inject it every two weeks that
anti body goes to that pcsk9 enzyme in
my liver and blocks it from producing
LDL now it cost me $10,000 a year and I
have to do it every two weeks but it
drops my LDL level down into a beautiful
green
zone I'm using these antibodies produced
in a manufacturing plant and ship to
me what we built in vacinity was a
vaccine
that I inject and it causes my own
immune system to manufacture that same
antibody for
free to block that pcsk9 enzyme that
make sense yes and you're doing that now
yes I'm not well we're developing the
vaccine right now the first results were
amazing we're you know going from phase
one into phase two uh long story short
the ability um there are these
monoclonal
antibodies uh which are like the top
selling
drugs and uh it's using these antibodies
which are proteins to go and block a
certain process we talked about that a
little bit earlier but they're
expensive but the idea now is instead of
manufacturing these monoclonal
antibodies in a in a vat in a Pharma
manufacturing plant can you just teach
your own immune system to produce that
same antibody
and that's the future of uh of vaccines
your vaccine um the vaccine is playing
your immune system like an
app my wife Lisa struggled profoundly
with her gut health and experienced
debilitating stomach pain so I focused
my energy on learning everything I could
about the human gut viome is on The
Cutting Edge of this growing area of
study with their atome gut intelligence
test just 2 to 3 weeks after sending in
your sample you can see your results on
20 Integrative Health tests that measure
your inflammatory activity metabolic
Fitness and the health of your gut
lining as a special offer to my viewers
viome is offering $110 off your test
just go to
trome.com impact and use code impact to
get the $110 off okay let me see if I
can boil that down to a thesis so for
somebody that is trying to figure out
where the opport unities are right now
because we're living in this hyper
disruptive time yeah I want people to be
aware of the ways in which things are
being disrupted so that they can go in
and take advantage there's so okay so
I'm going we're going back to the
investment side here so listen uh we're
in the middle of a biotech winter right
now just to be clear there was um if you
look at all the biotech companies out
there they're significantly
depressed so if you're playing the
public markets and you find companies
that have good cash position and have uh
strong potential drug candidates it's a
great time to buy because the stocks are
all like 10 or 100 fold depressed so I
just put that out there one second um I
think Health uh I think the medical
system the Health Care system is so
broken it's pathetic I think we're going
to I think it's going to crumble on
under its own weight and so we're going
to reinvent how we deliver healthc care
I think at home
you're going to all be we're all going
to be monitored so I'm wearing a
continuous glucose monitor right now
I've got my Aur ring I've got my Apple
watch so there's going to be a whole
slew of wearables all of that wearable
data is going to monitor me
24/7 so one of the things we we do it
Fountain as well is we bring in all your
wearable data so in between your annual
uploads which are deep dives into you
we're monitoring what's going on so
we're going to see are you making
recommendations based on what you see
absolutely absolutely so for supporting
your sleep for supporting your diet so
my my continuous glucose monitor right
and there's companies like levels or
there's free Libre there's others that
measure how your body reacts to eating
those P peanuts or that Snickers bar and
how quickly your blood sugar elevates
and how quickly it goes back down and
based upon that you know uh going into
pre-diabetic or becoming a
diabetic your glucose is is a poison in
the body I don't know people realize
that our bodies were never designed to
eat as much sugar as we do and glucose
sticks to
proteins and then your immune system
sees that glycosilated protein as a
foreign and attacks it and causes
inflammation so a lot of cardiovascular
disease and neuroinflammatory disease is
a result of people's
diet but you don't talk about that no
one talks about that okay so um I was
going somewhere slightly different when
I said thesis so I don't necessarily
mean investing but I mean if I can
create an
overarching
uh thesis on what it is that links all
this stuff together uh so your
interpretation of where we are in the
world right now as I understand it is uh
your body body no longer needs to be a
black box yes we now have the Imaging
capacity to see what's going on we have
the ability to do something about it
there are Therapeutics that are
advancing now very rapidly yes where you
can leverage the body's own systems in
in
a um intentionally triggered fashion
whether that's through vaccines whether
that's through some other mechanism um
but we're getting we have a deep enough
understanding of the body's mechanisms
that we're able to trigger those and get
them to go in and clean up whether it's
LDL or something else
and people need to realize that your
health is something you can do something
about and if I I think about having a
longevity mindset and what does a
longevity mindset mean it means I
believe and I do believe this that this
next decade we're going to see
incredible
progress and 10 years from now we're
going to have the ability to live an
extra 20 healthy years what do you think
that progress is going to be in the
ability to manipulate the immune system
so so I think it's uh a lot of what
we're doing on this x prise we just
announced right so we get um $101
million from
Evolution uh from Chip uh chip Wilson
who is uh the founder of Lululemon who
put up you know 26 million plus another
$10 million purse for his disease called
fshd it's a muscular distrophy and we're
asking teams to reverse the functional
loss in muscle immune and cognition
right so you're moving well you've got
great immunity and you're thinking
clearly and so over the next seven years
we're going to have incredible progress
in those
areas that's one of
the the I don't want to call it uh it's
one of the thrusts that I'm focused on
moving the needle forward
and so if you believe that we're going
to have
this uh this progress your longevity
mindset needs to be I'm going to do
whatever it takes to live long enough to
intercept these other
breakthroughs so I I arrive at this
point in reasonably good
health so for me that's the thesis that
we're going to have these breakthroughs
from biotech from from cellular
medicines from Gene therapies from
crisper Technologies from all of these
things from Ai and if I'm able to keep
myself in good enough health I'm going
to intercept these and it's going to buy
me the next 20 years and during that
time they going to be additional
breakthroughs will buy me the next 20
years if you want that if you love life
and you want to see what's coming in the
next you know Century um there's good
reason for you to take care of yourself
what does that look
like taking care of yourself s right now
there are things that people need to be
doing um and I I just you know I wrote a
book that just came out called uh
longevity your practical
Playbook um I've you know I just wrote a
book last year with Tony Robbins called
life force we we did a conversation
about that great book and it's 700 pages
and it's amazing and very few people get
through a 700 page book so I wanted to
write a very practical book that looks
at and says this is what I'm doing and
this is what I think um is science backs
and I put it into uh a few very simple
chapters number one what to do about
diet because there are fundamental
things we can come back to that
sleep um exercise like the most
important thing right you think exercise
is more important than diet and I'll
come back come back to that so they're
all important you know diet sleep
exercise mindset super important not
dying from something stupid which I call
doing your upload at Fountain like
knowing what's going on inside your body
and then meds and supplements so the
book looks at that I actually uh I made
a reduction that was the word a
reduction of that into what I call my uh
my practical my you know Peter's
longevity practices which I have a copy
over there which is free for people it's
a 25 30 page like this is what I'm doing
and why at DM andis.com DM andis.com
longevity um and you can get my book
there you can get this uh this PDF
download um and it's it's very
definitive so listen there's no one diet
for everybody I've been a vegan I I've
been uh you know keto diet I'm mostly
Mediterranean but the things I've
discovered is number one sugar is a
poison um minimizing your sugar and and
why whole plants are critically
important even the order in which you
eat your food matters like if you're
given like you go out to for dinner at a
restaurant when they bring you the bread
and the wine ask him to bring it back
during the dinner
course um if you're going to eat the
bread at least dip it in olive oil first
glucose talking about not spiking your
glucose immediately right which is the
worst thing you can it really drives you
to so why bring it back is it eating
proteins first so what you want to do is
on your plate eat your vegetables first
if it's if it's asparagus if it's
broccoli if it's a salad the fiber slows
down your digestion eat your protein
next and then eat your carbs
last um it slows down your sugar
spike it actually allows you to absorb
the best nutrients out of your PL of
food first so even making that small
you'll lose weight you'll get better
nutrition and you'll actually feel full
having eating the best stuff first right
it's just a really small trick that I'm
just like you know once I learn that
it's like okay I need to tell everybody
about that it's a small the order in
which you eat your food matters right so
there's a whole bunch about diet there
um exercise is probably the single most
important thing I have stepped up my
exercise from like two or three days a
week to 5 days a week your physique has
changed dramatically yeah I've added
muscle and it's my goal to add muscle
muscle is one of the most important uh
previty parts of your life are you doing
trt uh I am I do take a certain amount
of testosterone and it's simply I don't
actually feel different I am taking a
small amount of testosterone uh simply
to support muscle growth it on blood
levels I do uh
I I'm staying in like
800 uh range and sometimes up to a th
but does it increase your libido it
doesn't it doesn't it it doesn't touch
my
libido I mean my libido is fine but I
don't if I'm off it or on it it doesn't
make a difference and you know people
who've got you know I don't think I I
exhibit grouchy old man syndrome so I'm
I'm you know I'm like the most positive
person I know no doubt um but I'm using
it specifically for supporting muscle
mass but then I'm doing 150 gram of
protein a day I'm having creatin I'm
taking amino acid supplementation I'm
focused on adding muscle mass um as you
grow older adding muscle becomes harder
and harder yeah and one of the
unfortunate mechanisms that a lot of
people die as they go into their 70s and
80s I'm 62 right now is uh you fall
because of muscle weakness you break a
pelvis or a hip you end up in the
hospital it's painful to breathe you get
a pneumonia and you're down for the
count right it's happened to my dad
happens a lot of people and the survival
rate post to hip or pelvis fracture if
you're over 70 is like really low so you
don't want to do that you want to
maintain muscle mass it also maintains
your stem cell population and your blood
um in your in your muscle so um there's
an interesting stat I memorized this one
because it was important if you're over
60 and you can exercise doesn't have to
be super intense but some resistance
exercises can be with width or without
weights twice a week uh it reduces your
all cause mortality by 50% and reduces
your chance of cancer by threefold waa
yeah your body um the signals you give
your body from exercise and moving is
that I'm still useful
I still want to be here right the other
thing in the mental game is don't retire
you know Google the correlation between
retirement and death it's like five
years W it's really so you know when you
retire and you don't feel purpose in
your
life you know um I'm going to read
something from this is uh the longevity
practices book and there's a section on
mindset here and I just think it's
really so important so um I'm going to
read this to you says in a study of
69,7 44 Women and 1429 men this is
unusual cuz it's more women than men
published in the prestigious Journal
proceedings of the National Academy of
Science you know super high-end
peer-reviewed publication it was found
that optimistic people lived as much as
15% longer than pessimists
wow pretty amazing your mindset
matters and you know making use of your
body and being out there and having
purpose and all of these things are
subtle Clues right we all know people
that very close to their husband or wife
and their spouse dies and then they die
weeks later right here's another uh
here's another story here one of my
favorite stories illustrating uh
illustrating the power of Mind Over uh a
lifespan comes from the anals the anals
of American history as it turns out in
an extraordinary demonstration of the
will to live two of America's founding
fathers Thomas Jefferson and John Adams
both willed themselves to live long
enough to see the 50th anniversary of
the Declaration of Independence even
though in the early 1800s the average
lifespan was only 44 years old Jefferson
who was then 83 and Adams who was 90
made it made it to July 4th 1826 both
dying on that exact date the 50th
anniversary of the nation's founding wow
amazing I didn't know that yeah I love
that story um having purpose in life
being optimistic making use of your body
all of these things are fundamental and
when I think about a longevity mindset
it is really you know I live with this
every day I care about this every day I
am I think this is the most exciting
time ever in human history to be alive
with what's going on and opening up the
space for
with because of the rate of change
because the rate of change because of
the rate of potential it's like an
infinite you know I mean if you were
born a 100 years ago and every year
right at my abundance 360 Summit I look
back 100 years and I look at like what
was life like 100 years ago and what was
the rate of innovation 100 years ago and
the numbers and the examples are crazily
slow and I don't remember 18 1923 I
remember 1922 there were seven
breakthroughs in that year I not like
seven in a week or seven in a month it
was seven in the entire year and I
searched everywhere patent filings
headlines writeups and so it was like it
was like the uh uh uh water ski was
invented uh the a me a mechanical uh uh
mechanical garage door opener uh a
retractable roof for the Ford Model T um
uh
vomite it was on the list I me I was
searching for stuff I was searching for
Stuff one of the seven is VE blender a
blender um for making malts and it was
like the pace of change was so
slow and we're living in a world today
where there's like massive breakthroughs
you know every hour of the day it's a
rate of change though that I think now
was giving people anxiety how do how do
you help people navigate
that um because I think that the ability
I define entrepreneurs as people who
find problems and solve
problems and I think entrepreneurs are
more empowered than ever before to solve
problems and that uh that they are
entrepreneurs are in our world creating
a better and more capable world I mean I
think we take for granted the fact that
you know on our phone we've got what we
would have spent tens of millions of
dollars if it was even possible 20 years
ago for two-way free video conferencing
all right every every game every book
every piece of music accessible for free
and we forget what the incredible world
we live in uh I think people who are
more in
uh teaching meditation and spirituality
going to help people deal with the with
the uh uh anxiety but I want folks to
realize the magical Universe they're
they're living in you know I think about
creating a world in which every mom
knows her
kids has access to the best health care
education all the food water energy
right this is the world of abundance I I
I you know when I first wrote abundance
with Steven Cotler 12 years ago I talked
about about creating a world not of
luxury but a world of
possibility right and I still believe
that and there's no velocity switch
there's no onoff switch to this
technology it's happening uh so what do
you dream about what do you wish you had
what do you want to do I mean you can
put it all away and go live in the
forest um and and people will but most
choose not to it's interesting I don't
know if you if I ever showed you the
comic that I did called neon future but
it was contemplating this idea what
happens when AI shows up and when uh
brain computer interfaces exist and
people are able to augment their bodies
what what happens and my thesis is and I
think this will will bear out that
Society will bifurcate absolutely and
you will get people who are like no way
I'm not going to augment myself in any
way shape or form AI is the devil
uh and they will fight to keep Society
the way that it is we saw BL Society
occur we have seen parts of that a
rejection of
Technology right we saw the Amish
rejecting you know the Ford Model T and
electricity but I think people
desire
convenience they desire
power they desire um having their hopes
and
dreams
fulfilled I I don't
know I think they will bifurcate but I
think the vast majority will
pursue
um
uh accessing all of it it's interesting
I think it will play out something like
this uh I think that the rate of change
is going to cause a lot of people a lot
of turmoil they will get addicted to
things like social media and the
dopamine
cycle uh their sense of well-being will
be tremendously disrupted by um losing a
sense of purpose to Ai and the reason
that even in the face of all of that I
consider myself wildly optimistic about
the future I am very aggressively a
techno optimist um is because I don't
think that Evolution and that's probably
is the right word though I don't just
mean it from the sort of standard
perspective of your DNA mutation
mutations accumulate and you get better
I mean technological Evolution societal
Evolution um I don't think it cares
about any one generation and it will
gladly create a period of 15 to 20 years
of just absolute brutality but on the
other side of that will be a generation
that grows up with just oh this is all
der rer and yeah I have a quantum
computer in my pocket and there's Fusion
Energy and it's abundant anything I can
imagine becomes real and the person that
I want to speak to is the person that
wants to map out where this goes and how
to ride this wave well
and to your point and I don't know if
this is what you meant by power but to
me power is the ability to close your
eyes imagine World better than this one
open your eyes acquire the skills to
actually make that world come true and
when I think about as a filmmaker all my
entire journey to getting into business
and growing Quest and you know spending
20ish years of my life doing something
sort of to the side of what I really
wanted to do was because I had no idea
how to break into the industry because
making a film was a no budget film was
$100,000 yeah and now it will be if I
were to have kids today my kids would
grow up in a world where you just type
onto your phone the kind of movie in
fact they they're not even going to type
they they would go and the the thing
that they are most likely to want to see
in that moment would exist yes and as
long as we're able to understand our
baser natures and not be a slave to
algorithms but instead go okay I
understand how I have to create distance
from this I can't allow myself to get
addicted I want to use these things in
order to what whatever experience
whatever thing you want to experience um
then I think that that we be okay and I
think so I'll make a prediction I think
you agree with this I think I've heard
you talk about this but if not let me
know um the reason that the fairy
Paradox isn't a paradox is I don't think
people end up exploring space I think
they explore virtual yes worlds which
will be far more interesting than
anything that's a slave to physics yeah
and that's that's the reality that I
think that we're moving towards and
between here and there many people will
be broken emotionally and they simply
won't be your competition and so for
those that are paying attention and
figuring out how to leverage this
technology you will create the next wave
of opportunity and you will
Thrive I agree with all of that um and I
do agree that there's going to be a
period of
turbulence over the next five to 15
years and that turbulence is going to
come because we're in the midst of a
phase change in
society um you you know you've had
you've had Mo goodat on the show right
twice twice yeah and mo has become a
dear friend we're working on a
documentary together around scary smart
uh his book which I commend to everybody
and you know I've had this conversation
with Elon that on the flip side of AGI
we do have
abundance
uh defined
as uh access to all the food water
energy Healthcare education that you
want everybody has access to it's
completely democratized and
demonetized
um and I think that's a more peaceful
world as well if you can have what you
want um it's also somewhat of a post
capitalist world but we can talk about
that separately um then you're less
likely to you know blow yourself up in a
suicide vest um and uh you know if you
if everybody could be expansive and they
almost in their own light cone sort to
speak instead of having to uh oppress
other people you just go and you you
build and you
create um how do we cross the chasm
though because there's a big so that's
the issue is the chasm over the next 5
to 10
years uh when AI comes in in the near
term and think we're going to see this I
think you know mo and I have talked
about patient zero being the 2024
presidential
elections right why um because I think
it is you know in 2020 Cambridge
analytica moved the needle and caused A
disruption uh with you know massive
budget in 2024 a kid in their garage
using generative AI can do that by
creating deep fakes deep fakes uh you
know uh creating
um you know
social uh uh persuasive
arguments um that get traction and are
sway people's thinking whether they're
true or not I mean say something enough
times to somebody in enough ways and
they believe it um and stop asking well
is this true and where to come
from uh it's just you know we have all
of these cognitive biases
um which are fascinating it's a whole
field I I'm fascinated by that our brain
takes all these shortcuts because we
can't process all the information so
I've got a recency cognitive bias I give
more value to something I recently heard
right I've got a familiarity bias I give
if someone dresses and looks like me I
give it more Credence I have a
negativity bias I give much more
Credence and negative information than
positive information and this sort of
stuff saved your life on the savanas of
Africa 100,000 years ago today you can
be manipulated by them
um
so um I think I forgot where I was going
let me ask what what is the thing about
the 2024 election that you're most
afraid of besides who might become
president um well if that's the thing
you're most afraid of I well I think
it's going to become I think we have a
divisiveness coming uh and people are
playing full out and uh it's no longer
gentlemanly
politics uh and I think
um you know part of this is a post
truuth
economy where you can't tell whether
something is truthful or not and one of
the things I'm afraid about is more
Civil War than anything else yeah right
um so this next I'm the you know I'm the
person who the glass is not half full
it's
overflowing but yet I do see this period
of turbulence we have a whole population
we have a whole generation having gone
through covid who are now going to step
into a world where they're not getting
the jobs they expected because AI is
coming in and taking a number of those
jobs um so there's going to be youthful
social unrest sounds like Arab Spring
almost over
again uh so how do we how do we navigate
that uh and I've been thinking about
that um
uh my wife Kristen madat and I have been
you know talking about what do you teach
people how do you navigate
this um and part of it is how do people
survive uh traumatic experiences because
it's going to be traumatic for a lot of
people but yet on the flip side of this
we're going to
see I think tremendous abundance so it
is something we have to navigate but
Humanity navigates these things over and
over again we navigated World War I
World War II uh you know
um do you have any
um rules or insights I'm not sure what
the right moniker to put it on it is
that you want people to understand about
themselves or whatever to help us
navigate this
well I want to have
those I'm not sure I have them formed
yet
um I think that the most important thing
is a hopeful having hope about the
future you know if you ask yourself the
question um in the
year
2023 would you rather live here now than
the year
1900 do you have an answer for me yes
for you yeah obviously obviously right
and I think the vast
majority uh when I ask people is is you
know and people who say the you know the
good old days 1900 they're fooling
themselves for sure uh you know first
time they got an infection they'd be
like whoa yes I'm dead uh you know the
streets of any major city stank from
urine and manure from horses y um life
was short and brutish the average age
was 40 you got you were dead from
tuberculosis by then I mean it it was
really brutal and you would you would
work 708 80 hour work weeks and your
kids were working to try and make ends
meet child labor was was prominent back
then so we romanticize the
past um and between the year 1900 and
today uh I did the work I'm right I have
a a book come I'm got a book coming out
in the first half of next year called
age of abundance which is my follow on
to my first book and I looked at what
were the number of uh needless deaths
over over this last
century uh and if you look at disease
Warfare and uh
starvation it was about 240 million
people died from those whoa right so you
had 50 million people dying from just uh
the Spanish Flu in World War I and you
look at just I mean it's pretty we lived
a pretty brutal life over the last 123
years 20th century was rough and
yet we got here and so I think
ultimately it's about the human Spirit
overcoming these
things and so I am hopeful that the
human spirit will allow us to evolve to
this next level and we are we are
evolving as
Humanity uh we're
evolving technologically and
societally and we are also going to
evolve in other ways we're going to go
from evolution by Darwinism natural
selection to evolution by human
Direction uh and it's moving fast right
this is what Ray kwell talks about in
The
Singularity um that you know in his you
know there's lots of singulari
Singularity comes from physics as a as a
Event Horizon you can't see beyond right
and so we're really close to the AI
Singularity which is I can't tell you
what's going to happen in 5 years let
alone 10 years with AI it's moving so
incredibly fast and then Ray talks about
the singularity is the convergence of
all of these bio info Nano information
Technologies from AI
biotechnologies
nanotechnologies which is transforming
life at such a rapid how real is
nanotechnology uh I think it is
definitively real um right now today uh
there are people working on elements of
it a good friend of mine has dropped off
the planet to go invest his wealth in
building
it um what does it do today so so um
today uh we are building molecular
machines versus Atomic
machines so what is nanotechnology in
the first place nanotechnology is the
ability to assemble things atom by atom
so Eric Drexler wrote a book in 1986
called engines of Creation in which he
looked at uh nanotechnology and the
ability to the physics and the
energetics of being able to build things
atom by atom um and his he writes about
an idea called an assembler which is a
machine that's able to grab a silicon
atom or an oxygen atom or a nitrogen
atom and bond it and assemble things and
an and a assembler I could have an
assembler in my hand and I can command
it to take atoms from my skin and
manufacture an assembler and give it to
you and now you have one and you can
have that assembler replicate itself
right and these are Atomic machines and
now I can drop it in the soil and I can
say produce me an electric
Lamborghini and it can go to the open
source and find a design for an electric
Lamborghini and then it will take the
atoms out of the soil it'll need energy
energy is abundant in the universe and
it'll say I need a kilogram of titanium
or a kilogram of lithium or whatever the
case might be um and you'll provide that
feed that Raw Feed stock and we'll
manufacture this for you now we uh we
know
this um like an oak tree
seed is a uh is
a if you would nanotechnology you take a
seed for an oak tree you plant it it
just does it very slowly mhm it takes
the the atom it has the information set
inside of that that uh Oak seed and it
grabs atoms from the soil and then
energy from the Sun and over time it
builds a Mighty Oak it just does it at a
very slow time frame and so the question
is can you build Atomic machines that
can manufacture things at a much faster
time frame and so um there is nothing
that has been uh uh ever shown that said
it's impossible from the laws of physics
and we're building things now at a
molecular level and in some cases an
atomic level um and I believe you know
Ray Kell's prediction is that it is um
you know in the next 15 years that we'll
see these coming into existence and AI
will become probably our most valued
tool for being able to produce those uh
uh those atomic
assemblers and then it's between Ai and
and nanotechnology it's the universe is
reinvented instantly we we're in a post-
capitalist Society at that point what
has value
anymore very few
things yeah so what is a post capitalist
society thenes that look like God you
really want to go there
um it's uh so a Jeremy riffkin wrote a
book called zero marginal
Society uh which talks about this and
it's a it's a it's a world of massive
abundance where you can have almost
anything you want uh There Is wealth
accumulation for the people who get
started earlier in
that
but I I would rather just focus on the
notion that in in this world you can
have access to all the food water energy
Healthcare education everything you want
it's
available
um I know listen I can tell you the
world's going to get very strange very
fast yeah my my concern going back to
the nearest term strangeness would be
the 202 Richard feeman that's his name
okay Richard feeman Professor yes wrote
about this he wrote a in in the I think
1958 he wrote a very famous paper gave a
lecture called there's plenty of room at
the
bottom and he said let's look not at
macro structures and the universe but
let's look at atomic structure and
Richard fan wrote effectively the first
paper on nanotechnology and then Eric
Drexler wrote the first book on the
subject and really explored the physics
of it interesting yeah I don't know a
lot about fem men but certainly uh
somebody that comes up a lot um so the
thing that I'm most concerned about in
the immediate term the 2024 election the
thing that I'm worried about is that
people will do deep fake
videos
and it is distressing to me one how good
they are and two if you know what you're
looking for you can usually tell pretty
quickly what's fake and what's real but
the average person
can't doesn't know and I'll see a video
come across my exfeed that clearly is a
deep fake and people are riled up in the
comments as if it's real and I'm like
the barrage of things that will come
will be I have to tell you funny story
so um you know my podcast is called
moonshots and uh uh it's been
fun and I focused mostly on interviewing
entrepreneurs who are taking big moon
shots in the world folks who want to you
know do amazing things and their stories
of getting there and the difficulties
and how they overcome them and
such uh about 3 months ago my team
created an avatar of me I saw the
interview and I interviewed myself and I
was blown away I call it Peter bot and
uh it's both visual it looks like me it
moves its arms around it sounds like
MEPS are in syn it's trained on all of
my books and all my blogs
and so um and it's great and it's I'm
really proud of that uh of that
interview and I I I said it did a better
job uh and as a orator and as someone
communicating my ideas than I did it was
it was amazing um and I asked it to talk
about what were the downside scenarios
of deep fakes and tell me a
story and it instantly whipped up a
story about a young female politician
who is running for election and the
opponent creates a deep fake of of her
and information gets out there and
despite the fact that it's not
true the story starts spreading virally
and her ability to overcome it when it's
out of the gate was
impossible and that is problemsome
problematic yep lies go around the world
faster than the truth could put on his
shoes yeah love that saying oh my God
that's terrifying uh yeah I think that's
exactly what's going to happen you said
something earlier you said people are
playing for real or for Keeps or I foret
the exact phrase he used but that is
true right now people are playing for
all the marbles so one uh I would like
to see the blockchain used to Watermark
somehow signify this thing is real I
think it's the most important technology
for that and it's actually the most
important use of blockchain you know
I've always been like okay besides like
Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and
so forth what's blockchain really going
to be valuable for I think it's truth
authentication yes correct this thing is
real the
the obviously cryptocurrency the
blockchain has become incredibly
divisive some people are totally for it
and as again somebody developing games
I'm like right at the intersection of
people hate or love this technology but
if I could get them to understand it's
just the technology it lets you do a
thing and so what is that thing that it
lets you do and what it does is it
brings the laws of physics to the
virtual world and if tomorrow is going
to be more virtual than today and it is
then you better have something that
brings some of the laws of physics like
the ability to say okay I can
authenticate this thing so sitting
across from you now I obviously I don't
have any concerns about whether you're
real or not and for a very long time it
was well a picture
or a video that's easy and then it
became well a picture you can fake but
video is still real and now it's okay
even video man is super easy to fake and
so that becomes really disconcerting and
if we don't have a way to Market and say
this thing is real this thing is not and
make it ubiquitous so that when it shows
up on my feed I it it is self-evident
this one is real and this one is what is
the blue check equivalent right exactly
and so that to me becomes really really
important to your point about the
election being patient zero it's like
this is coming right now right now this
is not a tomorrow problem this is a
two-day problem and given who's
running this is going to be a nightmare
and so I'm I am super worried and when
you look at Rio who's up to his the last
prediction I saw was 40% likelihood of
Civil War in the US 50% likelihood of a
global World War
and so it's like whoa like these are
terrifying odds
yes uh they
are and it's the human element um that's
at stake here right it's it's humans
doing this to themselves it's correct
one of important things people need to
realize that technology is not
inherently evil it's how humans utilize
the technology and we have so much to
live for and so much potential ahead of
us
infinite uh adjacent
potentials
um you know when I think about one of
why AI is
important it may well be to navigate all
this
stuff I don't know that we humans are
able
to I don't know given all of the
complexities of politics and
social beliefs and distr trusts you know
is there is there some means by which a
more brilliant or capable more gentle AI
is able to step in and support us during
this transition
period uh it's a conversation that's out
there and we're one we're thinking about
we talk about AI being the massive
disruptor can it be the massive
stabilizer as
well let me paint a scenario for you and
as somebody with are you kids 11 now my
kids are 12 12 uh as some for those
listening they two fraternal twin boys
yeah yes somebody that has kids who this
will impact I'll be very interested to
get your take on this so um I am
actively building an artificial world
with artificial characters that as the
technology matures we can't do this yet
but this this will be real very quickly
uh I want to build char characters that
you have a real relationship with that
you get to know they get to know you
they react differently to you um they
have memory and when I think
about I think technology has really
created a loneliness epidemic for a lot
of people but ironically I think
technology is going to be the solve for
that loneliness now the question becomes
will it be a better or worse world that
that remains to be seen but with my
optimistic haton um I think people's
best friends certainly in 10 years from
now most people's best friend will be in
AI in 20 years barring just absolute
nuclear catastrophe like for sure
biological weapon that's probably more
likely uh that seems a certainty and
that so people will have friendships
that are AI but they'll also have
romantic relationships and even
potentially this one freaks me out but
potentially sexual relationships with AI
um what do you think about
that um yeah I I think that we're going
to have
uh relationships with AIS that are
intimate because they know you better
than you know
yourself literally literally right I'm
I'm writing I'm I just finished my
chapters on AI in age of for age of
abundance and I'm working on the
humanoid robot chapters today and so AIS
will in fact um you're going to give
permission to your AIS to listen to your
phone calls read your emails watch what
you're eating watch what you're doing
you're going to do it openly because
when you give it that permission it can
help you in an amazing fashion right so
it'll remember everyone you've forgotten
so when the person's approaching you
it'll be you know my favorite right your
know the kid' birthday and so forth if
you want to be if you want to you know
follow my diet recommendations it will
for your AR glasses it will tell you
don't eat that or it'll have pre-ordered
for you at the restaurant uh you'll
listen it'll listen to your conversation
so we'll remind you everything and
people go I don't want it knowing this
stuff I mean well come on be serious I
mean Alexa is listening in your bedroom
right now Google knows everything you've
searched for Microsoft knows everything
on your email um you know it's Apple
knows all of your you know I mean if you
think you have privacy today don't fool
yourself also here's what I would invite
people to think about imagine because
right now they're thinking about uh Jeff
Bezos knowing what they're up to or
Larry Page knowing what they're up to
that doesn't feel good but if you think
of it this way uh hey Peter you just got
into tune argument with your wife and I
see from your aura ring that your blood
pressure has gone up um you know I
obviously you've invited me to listen
into these things here's a perspective
you might want to take like you know if
you remember she's very sensitive to
this and you said that and that you know
might have been what set her off but
look hey I totally understand where
you're coming from I see your position
100% super empathic exactly super
empathic in fact there was a study
recently done it was published in jamama
the Journal of American Medical
Association something like that um in
which in a study
of humans and AIS giving advice to
patients the AIS were like 10 times more
empathic than the
humans and another study looking at
therapists you're more likely to be open
and honest with an AI than a human
therapist because the AI is not going to
judge you y you can also tailor the a AI
I don't want you to try to solve the
problem AI I just want you to understand
my feelings yes yeah and it will do as
told so we're we're going to be it's
going to be interesting but I think
you're going to that
AI if it if the AI has access to the
backward looking cameras on an augmented
goggles so it can see where your eyes
are looking and if it sees me staring
for an extra microsc at a logo on your
shirt that shows curiosity or if it sees
my eye avert from something that I don't
like that is so much information that's
almost subconscious information to you
right if you're looking to buy clothing
and you see it knows from a conversation
you had with a friend that you're
looking to find and you Blazer and so
you you look an extra few seconds at a a
guy's Blazer as they're walking by and
it may say um do you like that
that and you're like I do it say okay
I'll order it for you right so it's like
knowing the ability for it to
know you more intimately than you are
honestly willing to know yourself is
there and that will build an
extraordinary
relationship yeah and to you know for
For Better or Worse here is the human
psyche at work if you have a friend who
effectively lives to understand you to
feel your pain your jokes over and over
again yes like you will feel seen there
is something so wonderful about feeling
seen go to that conversation about is
there someone in your life who knows you
intimately and doesn't judge you it's
exactly right yeah it is a level of
connection uh that few people
know and yeah I think we'll also be able
to give the AI a personality so that it
isn't I was thinking about this when you
were talking about
um how we will all become the B Borg
Borg borgor and uh Kinder kind Kinder
gentler Borg yes and I was thinking you
know it's interesting because the the
way that we individualize ends up being
a really cool part of the human
experience that my wife has a unique
perspective that she sees the world in a
certain way that is complimentary to the
way that I see the world makes her an
incredible partner and I don't want her
to be exactly like I am so I don't want
my AI companion to be a mirror that's
not interesting I want my AI companion
to be that perfectly tailored
complimentary thing to me so that
they're they're siding with me at times
but then other times they're sort of
pulling me along by the way you can
fracture that AI into five different
personalities all who know you well all
so true wow one is one is uh sensual and
sexual one is funny God one is funny one
is pushing you to do better one is
commiserating for with you here this is
going to get weird it is going to get
weird very weird very fast I love that
you just gave me an idea for a story
that is so interesting yeah yeah it's
amazing I want to see this world um and
for those who say oh my God slow down I
don't want to see it I like the way it
is right now you know um I hate to say
this there there's no velocity knob on
this technological world there's no
onoff switch it is moving at lightning
speed our job is to steer it to navigate
uh to inspire and guide it right um to
avoid that 40% Civil War 50% World War
all of those those things CU on the back
end of this I do believe there's a
stabilized Society
and a a world of extraordinary abundance
out
there
um I don't think we have a I don't think
we have a choice we're we're
evolving we're evolving very
rapidly
um so you know bringing this back I mean
the work that we do at the x prise
foundation is trying to evolve to
guide to create that positive world of
the future and guide us and guide where
entrepreneurs invest their time and
energy in a positive world
so um I mean it's fun we've launched now
$400 million in X prizes wow which have
driven uh uh you know on the at least $4
billion dollar in R&D and what we're
trying to do at The X prize is say this
is what's possible in the year 2040 in
energy in health in education right
education is another massively about to
be transformed World I'll come back in a
minute um and saying okay what's the
road map to get there and what are the
breakthroughs we need to get there you
know so I mentioned earlier of two
12-year-old boys I don't think the
educational system is getting them ready
for the world that's coming at them what
would they need to be ready uh not the
stuff they're learning in school right
now I've got I've set up a meeting I
won't mention my kids go to a very uh uh
super high-end amazing private school in
in Santa
Monica and um but it's based on the
traditional old educational system right
so this past year they learned the 50
capitals of the US states and I'm like
huh why are I mean that's why God
created Google I mean I would rather you
and so I wrote a Blog I put out two
blogs a week and folks can get it at Dam
andis.com but I put out a Blog on what
the schools need to be teaching kids
today and part of it was this is what I
think and then I asked you know chat GPT
what we need to teach our kids and it
was very very similar and it's not
memorization right so it's uh it's how
to ask great questions uh it's finding
your passion discovering that and really
diving deep into that whether it's
developing video games or whether it's
you know space which it was for me I
mean video games is for my kids um it is
learning how to uh how to uh argue your
point how to be lead how to be a great
leader how to be empathic right these
are some fundamentals maybe it's more
philosophy than anything
else
um and and it's not what we're teaching
our kids today
so what is the world like my my dad
didn't want to buy me a
calculator when I was growing up so I
could learn you know Basics and I ended
up getting a calculator learning how to
program on it but what's the world like
in like inside of five years where
everything is intelligent everything is
imbued with intelligence you're talking
to your refrigerator your car their desk
chair you I don't whatever it is right
intelligence is innate in all phys
physical things uh and where even more
than that AI has achieved and exceeded
human level
intelligence right so this whole concept
of AGI artificial general intelligence
Ray KW predicted we would have it in
2029 he made that prediction in
1999 30 years early and be guess what
everyone is agreeing on that date wow
his predictions are amazing so elon's
predicting like 2028 I just saw uh
yesterday the the CEO of Nvidia
predicted it's within 5 years which is
28 29 so what happens when when AI human
level AI your best teachers your best
diagnosticians they're all
AIS and an AI teacher Knows Your Child's
favorite color movie Star
Sports understands their grasp of
language understands
that they're tactile Learners versus
visual versus auditory where I can enter
a virtual world that is spun up
instantly we just saw a stability AI
right uh with stable diffusion being
able to create imagery instantly from
just
typing and I'm learning about Plato or
Socrates or ancient Saudi Arabia or
ancient Egypt and I'm living in a
virtual world for me and I'm walking
around and meeting people and and my in
my inquisitiveness is driving me to want
to learn more
and he's going to be
awesome but it's very different from
today it's very different from today um
one of the things that when you were
talking about the calculator and your
dad wanted to make sure that you were
able to um do the basics in your head do
you consider AI
cheating no no more than having a book
is cheating compared to what we had
before books which was memorizing
texts right when the printing press came
out you know this Art of Storytelling
started going
away
um I think AI is is a new
superpower and how we utilize it now the
big challenge is how do we
reconnect purpose in our life
I think what you're jumping to there is
if AI if you love writing which I do I
get up every morning and I write for an
hour it's like my precious time if I can
write for two hours I will before
hitting the gym or before taking the
kids to school so I love writing and I
love uh that experience of like a well-
written
paragraph but what happens I can say Hey
listen write a book called age of
abundance
click
yep I it's like it's kind of empty it's
like okay yeah I published a book along
with the other trillion books that are
published today and it's
meaningless so we're going to have to
reconnect meaning in other
ways so a purpose-driven life is so
critically important how much do you
think the world is going to fragment so
when everybody can publish a book when
everybody can make a video game when
everybody can write their own movie it
becomes less it becomes less valuable um
so what happens then I think we have to
find Value in different ways I think we
have to go after bigger
challenges I do believe a good amount of
bigger challenges because it will
reaggregate people because it will
reinspection universes yeah I think
Ready Player one is is the inevitable
future
yeah so but I'm talking about something
slightly different so here's the thing
as an entrepreneur I think about this a
lot uh you say if you want to make a
billion dollars help a billion people
yeah I don't know that that will be a
thing in the future I think 10 certainly
20 years from now everything is so hyper
individualized that I when I log into
Netflix which of course won't exist but
let's just pretend for it makes it
easier for people to think when I log
into Netflix and I'm scrolling it's
going to be making the movies based on
where my eye lingered for a little bit
longer with the conversation you had an
hour ago right so you're pissed or
you're just had the most amazing day
what's your emotional status right now
based upon your emotional feelings or
who you're with you want to pick a movie
that is going to like relax you or
inspire you or make you laugh whatever
the case might be and this process of
like Googling or randomly walking into
it instead you know the movie will be
teed up and ready to go correct and it
will be so individualized there won't be
this sense of shared experience except
for the fact that I'll create a sense of
shared experience because my 17 AI
personalities will all have experienced
it with me and watched it and have their
take but now I'm not you know going back
back to the I as when I'm thinking as an
entrepreneur I started thinking whoa
it's going to be very hard for me to
build a big business because I'm going
to pick it it will inevitably be just a
really deep Niche so I'll make something
for you know to use Kevin Kelly's idea
of a th000 true fans and now everybody
is making something just for a th000
true fans because everything is
bifurcated so I'm uh I'm making video
games in an anime style for fans of
vampire fiction that's in rhyming uh
couplets and and and by the way your AI
is producing 10,000 of those
individualized variations for the 10,000
raving subgroups exactly yeah so what do
you think that does to entrepreneurship
in
general
um I wish I
you um
I think we're going from mind to
materialization I think we're going from
deciding you want something to seeing it
instantly
created
um and it's going to it's going to get
there hyper
fast
um your whatever you desire is going to
be
enabled uh in ways that um are
shocking uh
so how do we give value because a lot of
times we give value to the struggle of I
worked really hard yes to find this
thing and I found this Unique Piece of
whatever it is or I worked hard to get
to that point and when the struggle is
gone what does that what does that mean
I think you've already answered the
question I this is why I think Ready
Player one is inevitable So Ready Player
One imagines a world that is dystopian
and so you create a far more enjoyable
reality but I think there's also let's
say that you make a utopian world you
will still end up in Ready Player one
because you're going to need to create a
world that's hard because until you
augment the human mind we will I think
there's a formula that we that evolution
is guaranteed that we will pursue which
is that you must work really hard to
gain a set of skills that matter to you
for whatever reason that allow you to
serve yourself and others and you will
need all those pieces and you will
pursue anything and everything until you
get those things a slot in place which
is exactly why video games are the allc
consuming medium let me take you on a
short Journey over three billion years
please uh and give some vision of where
things might go on a single
trajectory the Earth forms 4 and a half
billion years ago the earliest life life
forms were somewhere in the 4 billion to
3 billion single
cell uh life forms without a nucleus
these are uh procaryotic life and as
they
Advance uh they become they go from
procaryotic life to eukariotic life that
meant they Incorporated technology into
them mitochondria G apparatus and
plastic reticulum nuclear uh structures
they became more capable as individual
cells of supporting energy and
information um then those procaryotic
cells now more capable individual cells
became
multicellular and then those
multicellular life forms started
differentiating into life forms that
were not just multicellular but
subspecialized cells tissues and
organs and eventually evolved to us so
there's a direct line between the these
very simple individual cells and you and
I at 40 trillion
cells I think in the same way that we
went from procaryotic to ucareo Life by
taking technology in mitochondria and
plasmic reticulum nuclear structures and
so forth that allowed us to use energy
and information more effectively we
humans are the equivalent of that early
Pro carotic life we're about to take in
technology into
ourselves that's going to allow us to
connect with each other the same way
those individual cells became
multicellular
lives and so we're going to become this
meta intelligence where I'm going to
connect with 8 billion
people and my experience of life is no
longer a single
ego I'm now part of a much larger
intelligence a meta intelligence that's
conscious on a brand new
level it's really interesting but I I
love two things about that one it's a
very clear vision of where this could go
tying back to the way that we have
evolved thus far and really showing
technology is just another step in that
Evolution and the idea of humans as
midwives for artificial intelligence is
while somewhat disconcerting is still
cool to meh um but the other thing I
like about that is how much that reveals
about you and the way that your mind
works um it's very interesting like as I
paint the picture of where I think this
goes I think I reveal more about myself
than I am accurately predicting the
future because I think we'll both agree
like on the other side of AI is a
singularity we just can't who knows
what's really going to happen when
artificial super intelligence exists
like the idea of something being a
billion times smarter than we are now
like we we just can't predict but it is
utterly fascinating what it tells us
about each other to imagine what that
future looks like like for me all I can
see is ready player one and and I'm
working as fast as I can to make that
become a reality because that to me is
is just beyond fascinating what happens
like cuz I imagine a world where we're
not changing the way the human mind
works but we're giving it Unlimited
Technology the reality is we probably
will change the way the human mind works
but it's far more I'm far more capable
of Imagining the world with technology
and my normal brain than I am what I
will want and desire and push into as my
brain changes um but when I think about
in fact my listeners are going to get
tired of me bringing this up but I I'm
really having a moment right now with um
Minecraft have you played Minecraft
before 12year old boys exactly so
because I don't I I discovered it very
late in life and am utterly fascinated
by what I respond to in the game because
it's maso's hierarchy of needs without
the the top part of the pyramid and
seeing how compelling I find it to be
like I'm effectively naked and alone
yeah to build shelter find food and it
is compelling like yeah when when you
can really like it's I feel like the rat
in the cage that's able to stimulate the
dopamine receptors in my own brain and
so now I'm just like pressing that
button over and over and over um it is
really really fascinating to think that
we will be able to create entire worlds
that are designed to stimulate all of
our whether it's love pleasure so this
is where I come back to the desire to
live long enough to see as much of it as
possible yep right I think let me ask
you a a question I find
fascinating uh let's say that to see the
future you will have to witness
unimaginable Bloodshed because AI
triggers such a panic that humans just
go against each other but we get to the
other side and we get to that world of
abundance that you're talking about but
it's going to cost half of humanity do
you want to be in the half that lives or
the half that dies the half that lives
you and me both yeah that's not
Universal though which I'm very
surprised is true listen I I will do all
that I can I mean my my ethos through
the ex prise through singular University
through abundance 360 through all the
things that I do is all about how do you
make life better how do entrepreneurs
solve the world's biggest problems how
do we enable all that we
can um and I will do all I can to
minimize the
downside but my mission is to create
such a compelling vision of the future
that people truly want it and will give
up the dystopian potentials to enable uh
this future that they want I love it for
people that want to follow you on that
mission where can they connect with you
uh check out uh uh the x prise
foundation x pr.org uh we just announced
in Riad our $101 million xprize on uh
adding 20 healthy years on your life uh
and thank you to Evolution and uh and
Sol FSH for their underwriting of that
ex prise I love what I do I love my
friendship with you
pal uh I think this is the most
extraordinary time ever to be alive and
I want to I want people to be inspired
to you know create the vision that they
want to cuz you've got access to more
Capital more Tech more abilities more
knowledge more people than every before
in human history so uh you know part of
what I do is help people take moonshots
like what inspires you to go big and
bold what's the moonshot what's the dent
you want to make in the universe to
quote jobs right so and that that's the
final one if you're interested in my uh
my podcast on that subject it's uh the
podcast is called moonshots it is a
fantastic podcast Bud my dad speaking of
things that are fantastic if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care peace watch this conversation with
emod moac to learn exactly how AI will
disrupt the entire world how do we make
sure it doesn't kill us or how does it
make sure it doesn't enslave us or how
does it make sure that it doesn't give
us Eternal suffering and I realize this
could be the real thing that unlocks
Humanity AI is not going to replace
humans